wwwhisper is an authorization layer for HTTP servers that controls
which resources can be accessed by which visitors. wwwhisper works
with nginx auth-request module, it is also available as a [Heroku
add-on](http://wwwhisper.io) that provides wwwhisper as a service for
Ruby and Node.js applications on Heroku.

* wwwhisper grants access to HTTP resources based on visitors' email
  addresses. Password-less access tokens are used to prove that a
  visitor owns an allowed email.

* wwwhisper is application independent. It can be used for anything
  that HTTP server returns - dynamic content, static files, content
  generated by back-end servers. No support from applications or
  back-ends is needed.

* wwwhisper provides an admin web UI for manipulating
  permissions. Access to the admin is protected by wwwhisper, this
  allows to easily add and remove admin users.


Quick tour
-----------

A user that visits a wwwhisper-protected site is presented with a
login prompt:

![Login prompt](https://raw.github.com/wrr/wwwhisper/master/doc/screens/login_required.png)

The 'Request login token' button sends a link with an email verification
token to the provided email address. The link is valid for 30 minutes
and for a single successful login.

After the link is clicked, wwwhisper checks that the user is allowed
to visit the URL. If this is the case, the user is taken to the site:

![Access granted](https://raw.github.com/wrr/wwwhisper/master/doc/screens/access_granted.png)

HTTP server inserts a small overlay in the lower-right corner of each
protected HTML document. The overlay contains the email of the current
user and a 'Sign out' button.

If the user visits a location that he or she is not allowed to access,
an error is displayed: ![Access
denied](https://raw.github.com/wrr/wwwhisper/master/doc/screens/access_denied.png)

The admin application allows to easily grant and revoke access. There
is no need to create, distribute and manage passwords:

![Admin](https://raw.github.com/wrr/wwwhisper/master/doc/screens/admin.png)


Setup
-----

Heroku users can use the [wwwhisper add-on](http://wwwhisper.io) with
any Rack (Rails, Sinatra) and Node.js Connect based application. This
is the fastest and easiest way to setup wwwhisper access control, it
requires only 3 lines of config.

__NOTE: wwwhisper standalone setup procedure is outdated. The scripts
need to be updated to include token email delivery configuration
(originally wwwhisper used Mozilla Persona and didn't need to send
emails with tokens to verify email ownership).__

(Needs update: Following steps demonstrate how to install and
configure nginx with wwwhisper authentication on Debian-derivative
distributions (including Ubuntu). The steps should be easy to adjust
to work on other POSIX systems. [Unprivileged
installation](https://github.com/wrr/wwwhisper/blob/master/doc/unprivileged_install.md)
is good for experiments, development or if you don't have
administrative privileged on the machine. [System-wide
installation](https://github.com/wrr/wwwhisper/blob/master/doc/system_wide_install.md)
is recommended for more serious deployments.)

If you are already using nginx, you may use these steps as guidance
and adjust them to fit your current configuration.

Final remarks
-----------------

1. Make sure content you are protecting can not be accessed through
other channels. If you are using a multi-user server, set
correct file permissions for protected static files and
communication sockets. If nginx is delegating requests to back-end
servers, make sure the back-ends are not externally accessible.

2. Use SSL for anything important.
